

# Associated data and code

The files in this code repository are commented versions of the code used for the following work:

_A Numerical Framework for the Parameter Identification of the SIRD Model_ by Andrés Miniguano-Trujillo, John Pearson, Ben Goddard.

## Main files in this repository

* [`ReadMe.md`](README.md): This file.
* The [`Outputs`](Outputs) subfolder contains all the plots generated by each test alongside a summary of each optimisation step.

Jupyter notebooks with code for three sets of tests are included. 

1. First, an exact test where the target is generated from solving the SIR model and the parameter identification problem aims to reconstruct the parameters used to build the target. The relevant notebooks are [`[Exact] GD.ipynb`](%5BExact%5D%20GD.ipynb), [`[Exact] FISTA.ipynb`](%5BExact%5D%20FISTA.ipynb), [`[Exact] nmAPG.ipynb`](%5BExact%5D%20nmAPG.ipynb), and [`[Exact] LM-BFGS.ipynb`](%5BExact%5D%20LM-BFGS.ipynb).
2. Second, a smooth target is generated and fitted using a regularised optimisation problem. The effects of the regularisation parameter are showcased with several tests. The relevant notebooks are [`[Regularisation] GD`](%5BRegularisation%5D%20GD.ipynb), [`[Regularisation] FISTA`](%5BRegularisation%5D%20FISTA.ipynb), [`[Regularisation] nmAPG`](%5BRegularisation%5D%20nmAPG.ipynb), and [`[Regularisation] LM-BFGS`](%5BRegularisation%5D%20LM-BFGS.ipynb).
3. Third, time-dependent fitting of Covid-19 data is tested with terminal costs. The relevant notebooks are [`[DD] GD`](%5BDD%5D%20PGD.ipynb), [`[Grid] FISTA`](%5BDD%5D%20FISTA.ipynb), [`[Grid] nmAPG`](%5BDD%5D%20nmAPG.ipynb),and [`[Grid] LM-BFGS`](%5BDD%5D%20LM-BFGS.ipynb). The data can be found in [`SEIRQV_files`](SEIRQV_files) from [`https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-7222-5_42`](https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-7222-5_42).


Previous experiments (including the projection of a target to the ODE curves with respect to the regularisation parameter and mesh independence with oscillating data) are included in [`Two Additional Experiments`](Two%20Additional%20Experiments).

---

For better visualisation of the notebooks, the `codefolding` for Jupyter [extension](https://jupyter-contrib-nbextensions.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) is recommended.





